# The one that jumps on the bandwagon

Odds are if you're reading this, you've probably already seen a box-type controller. B0XX, SmashBox, (Open)Frame1, they have taken the scene by storm, to the delightful chagrin of some old codgers who are quick to call them out as "cheating devices". Despite the steep learning curve, they were quickly acknowledged to be *the* optimal input method if you're into sweating bullets on a children's party game. (I mean so am I, otherwise I wouldn't write this firmware to start with)

## Nerf this ?!
### **Warning: Content of this section is lowkey rant-y and political**

Unlike a certain amount of box firmwares out there, PicoPad comes with **zero** nerfs out of box. My personal POV about the nerfs implemented by H@x and copied by part of the making community is that they're an exercise in hypocrisy and large-scale production of bovine manure.

The Melee community (and to a *much* lesser extent the Smash community in general) is almost renowned for the dough spent by players in order to find a controller that is mechanically broken in just the right way so as to allow for things like optimal shield drop angles and perfect pivots. Thus, nerfing box controllers to be "on-par" with the GCC on the grounds that the very existence of box controllers is making the game pay2win, while regularly dropping up to 200 USD on unmodified GCCs (and almost 500 on modified ones/Phobs) is a complete and utter joke IMO. Oldheads will be the first to say "adapt or die", but when *they* have to adapt, suddenly the new, objectively better controller is nothing but a legalized cheating device in their eyes.

Myself hailing from the land/hobby of fightsticks, I've seen the storm rise even (slightly) before the famous Gafrobox incident with Daigo Umehara (one that has notoriously been misreported as the EVO committee ruling that box controllers should be illegal, where the only issue was the lack of SOCD cleaning on the Gafrobox). The long, heated arguments on Discord or Reddit about what's cheating and what isn't, traditionalism vs optimisation, etc. All I've really seen, and I say this as somebody who's had his head firmly wedged between the switches of a Sanwa JLF since 2009 (shoutouts to everyone who bought a MadCatz TE after seeing EVO finals that year btw), is salt.

Salt at having to share space with their all button brethren. Salt at no longer being the optimal kid on the block. Salt at seeing what they've known and cherished be slowly replaced. But, and you might disagree with that part, back when proper fightsticks were starting to get popular for home use (around 2006 or so ? I don't have hard dates on hand, I vaguely remember that somebody produced home versions of the Namco NOIR panels but I'm fuzzy on the details), not only did the pad players not fight back, at least no to this scale, hardly anybody was calling a fightstick a cheating device. (And if they did, you could usually bet solid money on them being a below average Ken player ;)  
This is the situation that is currently most prevalent in Ultimate, as some people claim a few characters (*you know who*) gain significant advantages when played on an all-button controller.

Eventually the community at large settled on a much more sane mentality of "Play with whatever the fsck you want so long as it doesn't allow you to do something the game normally does not allow". SOCD was eventually popularized at the hardware level first, before games from the latest generation (as of this writing) started implementing it in software (SFV for example I'm pretty sure didn't clean up SOCD at all at launch), and the whole "hItBoX iS cHeAt" debacle started dying at last (even though there are still some wannabe Jack Thompsons out there).

So why don't the Smash community do the same and shut the fsck up ?

Some nerfs I agree make sense, like the coordinates that allow for actions that are humanely not reproducible (IC desyncs points come to mind, some Y-coords are also janky AF, but I honestly didn't memorize them all because there's a good dozen or so). Some others are just plain dumb like the forced up-b buffer or the removal of the short hop tap jump coordinates *on a controller that is physically incapable of tap jumping* (by the strictest definition admittedly, so this may very well be a case of nitpicking)

There is also the whole "don't abuse quirks of the game engine" angle that I find, frankly speaking, a bit less hypocritical than it sounds. At least coming from a community who built a good half of its metagame on crouch cancelling. Short of the blatantly broken stuff (mostly the IC desyncs), if the community is willing to build upon glitches and unintended side effects (case in point manual desyncs are still allowed \*shrug\*), more power to them. Combos were born of a programming error in Street Fighter 2 after all. I am very sincerely not judging that. The issue is that the line that is drawn between what's a "good" glitch and "bad" glitch is entirely misplaced IMO.

Quoting a page of [SSBWiki](https://www.ssbwiki.com/Arcade_controller#Balancing_measures) on this: `The B0XX notably assists Fire Fox and Extended Up B angles, assisting characters like Fox, Falco, and Sheik`. But not Pikachu. Because fsck Pikachu I guess ? (I mean I don't like the character either; I'm fine with the "function", to paraphrase Combofiend)

Tl;dr: I don't like that the nerfs implemented by the B0XX are so arbitrarily selective for no good reason and rather than see their side effects as an inherently bad thing, I would advocate for a more open-arms approach as a significant portion of said nerfs have minimal impact on gameplay (in either way) to begin with.  
On the Ultimate side of things, I'm a little more ambivalent. I don't deny that there are advantages playing Kazuya on a box; I just express doubts to said advantages being so significant in the grand scheme of things, but that can be chalked up to me not being that familiar with Kaz to begin with.